W-19473121-hsa-component-partial-kt (#322)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: hybrid-standalone/modules/ROOT/pages/monitoring-dashboards-hybrid-apps.adoc

= Monitoring Dashboards for Mule Apps Deployed to Hybrid Standalone

Monitor your Mule applications deployed to hybrid standalone instances through comprehensive performance dashboards that provide real-time visibility into application health, business metrics, and integration performance across your distributed runtime environment.

== Overview

> Runtime Manager provides comprehensive application monitoring dashboards for your Mule applications deployed to hybrid standalone environments, enabling you to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runtime Manager provides comprehensive application monitoring dashboards for your Mule applications deployed to hybrid standalone environments, so you can:
```

=== Overview

Application monitoring dashboards help you understand critical aspects of your integration performance:

* Performance Analysis: When did usage peaks occur and how did they impact system performance?
* Response Time Correlation: What effect do traffic spikes have on application response times?
* Resource Utilization: How effectively are your applications using available processing resources?
* Error Analysis: What impact do high traffic volumes have on message failure rates?
* Multi-Application Impact: How do resource-intensive applications affect the performance of other applications on shared infrastructure?

=== Dashboard Types

Runtime Manager provides two application dashboard interfaces optimized for different monitoring needs:

* Built-in Anypoint Monitoring Dashboard +
Advanced metrics and comprehensive monitoring capabilities
* Classic Application Monitoring Dashboard +
Essential metrics for basic application monitoring

The dashboard interface displayed depends on your application's version, deployment target, and monitoring configuration.

[NOTE]

> After application restarts, CPU and memory information may not be immediately available in dashboards. To retain historical statistics, use the `dashboardStats` API or enable Anypoint Monitoring for persistent data storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CPU and memory information isn’t immediately available in dashboards after an application restarts. To retain historical statistics, use the `dashboardStats` API or enable Anypoint Monitoring for persistent data storage.
```

=== Dashboard Navigation and Features

Navigate application dashboards effectively using comprehensive time range selection and interactive data exploration features.

==== Time Range Selection

Monitor application performance across different time periods using the time range selector:

**Built-in Anypoint Monitoring Dashboard**

image::monitoring-dashboards-time-ranges.png["Time range selector for Anypoint Monitoring dashboard"]

**Classic Application Monitoring Dashboard**

image::monitoring-dashboards-cbd92.png["Time range selector for classic application dashboard"]

==== Data Aggregation by Time Range

Application metrics are aggregated differently based on the selected time range to optimize performance and provide meaningful insights:

[%header,cols="15,15,15,15"]
|===
| *Time Range* | *Mule Messages* | *Error Count* | *Response Time (milliseconds)*
| *3 Hours* | Per minute | Per minute | Per minute
| *24 Hours* | Per 8 minutes | Per 8 minutes | Per 8 minutes
| *7 Days*  | Per hour | Per hour | Per hour
| *2 Weeks* | Per 2 hours | Per 2 hours | Per 2 hours
|===

Data Visualization Patterns: +

* Multi-Worker Applications +

> When applications run on multiple workers, each worker appears as a separate curve on graphs, differentiated by color coding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When applications run on multiple workers, each worker appears as a separate curve on graphs, differentiated by color coding.
```

* Shared Infrastructure +

> Applications deployed to server groups or clusters display aggregated performance metrics as unified trend lines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applications deployed to server groups or clusters display aggregated performance metrics as unified trend lines.
```

* Performance Correlation +

> Dashboard data enables correlation between application performance and underlying infrastructure utilization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dashboard data enables correlation between application performance and underlying infrastructure utilization.
```
